Active Noise Cancellation is a fascinating feature of high-end headphones that requires some rathercomplicated engineering. Headphones such as these are able to eliminate or destroy unwanted noisethat is produced by the external environment, while simultaneously playing the desired musicor audio that is sent from your smartphone. In a nutshell, headphones such as these dothis by using a microphone to measure the unwanted noise produced by the environmentand then calculating an anti-sound wave. This anti-sound wave is added to the waveform ofyour music or audio, and when the combined waveform is played through the headphone’sspeaker, the external noise is eliminated or canceled out, and just the desired audio remains.That’s the basic principle, but there’s a lot of intricate engineering that underpins active noisecancellation. In order to better understand the engineering, it’s easier to visualize sound wavesnot as these sinusoidal patterns but rather as a set of traveling high-pressure zones,known as compressions, and low-pressure zones, known as rarefactions.Let’s say you live or work next to a highway. All the cars and trucks that zoom by generatinga sound with a waveform such as this, which is really just a sequence of traveling high pressureand low-pressure zones. These compressions and rarefactions move through the air,and when they hit your eardrum, you hear the sounds of the highway.In order to produce an anti-sound wave for the highway’s noise, a sound wave must be generatedthat is equal and opposite. By that, we mean that for every high-pressure zone from the noise,a low-pressure zone needs to be generated, and for every low-pressure zone from the noisea high-pressure zone needs to be generated. The noise and anti-noise meet, and when theselow-pressure zones and high-pressure zones meet or vice versa, they average out in that area,thereby eliminating the sounds from the highway. There are a few engineering challenges withthis solution. First, the headphones or earbuds them-selves provide some passive noise insulation,and therefore we need two microphones. One microphone is used on the outside to measurethe noise itself, and a second microphone is used on the inside of the head-phonesto measure the percentage of noise that’s getting through the sound insulatingproperties of the headphones and into your ear. The second challenge is that it’s rather difficultto perfectly time the anti-sound wave with the external noise. The noise from the highway hashundreds of compressions and rarefactions every single second, so, if the anti-sound wave is offby a few milliseconds, then the noise cancellation won’t work properly. Therefore, a high-powereddigital processor is used to measure and calculate the perfect anti-sound wave, while simultaneously,the interior microphone is monitoring whether the active noise cancellation is in fact workingproperly. Note that active noise cancellation is more effective for low frequency, repetitivenoises because they have only a couple hundred peaks and troughs, or wavelengths every second,but high-frequency noises have thousands of wavelengths per second. If there’s eventhe smallest inaccuracy in timing the anti-sound wave with the high frequency noise, the resultingcombination between the anti-sound wave and the high frequency noise will be ineffective.The third challenge, managed by the processor and circuitry is that the anti-sound waveformneeds to be combined with the audio waveform that is sent from your smartphone. The audio plus theanti-sound acts just like different instruments in a song and they combine to make a new sound whichis played through the single speaker. When the combined audio plus anti-sound waveformand the noise from the environment mix, the anti-sound component of the combined waveformand the noise from the environment cancel out, and we are left to hear just the desired audio.We made a separate episode that goes over the different components of these headphonesand we’re working on future episodes that will cover other feats of engineering suchas Bluetooth communication, the antenna, and the micro-electrical mechanical system microphones.This video was made possible by our sponsorPCBWay. PCBWay can quickly manufacture your PCBs with competitive prices,impeccable standards and they also provide PCB assembly services where they populate andsolder the components to the PCB. Check them out using the link in the description below.Also, one quick note about this 3D model. These are the Apple AirPods 2, which don’t actuallyhave an active noise cancellation feature. In order to model the interior of these headphones,we have to get detailed pictures of each component, which as you see can be ratherdestructive. We have exterior models of these other rather expensive headphones which do provideactive noise cancellation, but no interior models of them. Sorry for the switch up which we hopewasn’t too confusing. Furthermore, check out the creator’s comments in the English Canada Subtitleswhere we discuss the difficulties of implement noise cancellation in a room.We’d also like to thank all of our YouTube and Patreon sponsors for helping us buildthese in-depth engineering explanations. You can also provide your support by subscribing,liking this video, and commenting below. This is Branch Education, Thanks for watching.